Here are eight brand new viral,
trending, hot offthe- press Instagram
carousel ideas. Number one, the
stopmotion carousel. In order to achieve
this stopotion carousel effect,
basically what you need is the first
slide to be a video. You want this video
to be pretty stationary. So, set up your
camera on a tripod and then have the
subject of the video just kind of rock
back and forth like a video game
character standing in one location. Then
on top of that video, add a piece of
text that says, "Hold the dots and
scroll." This encourages your audience
to quickly scrub through the middle of
the carousel, jumping right from the
beginning to the end. When they do this,
they will quickly flip through all of
the photos in the middle of the carousel
and end up on the last slide. Of course,
like I just mentioned, between the first
slide and the last slide, we need a
bunch of photos. And ideally, these
photos are going to be very, very
similar from one to the next with only a
minor amount of movement, a minor change
or a minor animation on each slide. And
then the last slide of the carousel is
another video, but this one is going to
be kind of like the after or the grand
reveal. I've seen some college football
teams using this to announce their new
uniforms. I've seen fashion creators
using this to show off a new outfit. And
in general, it's just a dynamic and
interactive way to get people engaged
and show them some sort of a change.
Before we get into the next carousel
idea, let me just say that carousels are
one of the best ways to grow on
Instagram right now. They're not one of,
they are the highest, most engaged with
kind of content on Instagram. In fact,
more people on average engage with
carousels than reals. And with there
being 34% more reels posted in 2025 than
2024, now is the time to jump on the
carousel trend. And hopefully by the end
of this video, you can see that
carousels are actually a lot easier to
make and you can have a lot more fun and
expressiveness with your carousels than
what we've been used to for the last 5
years. But I'm going to quit my yapping
because the last time I did one of these
carousel idea videos, the top comment
was fast forward to the 4-minute mark
because that's when his intro is done.
So intro done. Let's get into the second
carousel idea, which is what I like to
call the this versus that carousel.
Basically, each of the slides in this
carousel are following the same pattern.
They can exist in and of themselves.
They don't necessarily talk to each
other in any way. You could view slide
seven or slide four or slide one in any
order and it wouldn't really matter
because they're all revolving around the
same topic, but they're not necessarily
building off each other. It's not a
story. Visually, each slide of this
carousel is going to be split in half
with a top half and a bottom half. And
essentially, you want to use the top and
bottom half of each image to put two
things next to each other that really
contrast with each other, that really
conflict with each other. One example of
this that I've done personally is I put
a video of myself in the top half and
the bottom half. Exact same video
playing in unison, but then I change up
the text on the top half versus the
bottom half. So on the top half it might
say if my video goes viral, and on the
bottom half it'll say if my video
doesn't go viral. And so the comparison
that I'm making here is that my life
isn't going to change or be all that
different whether my video goes viral or
it doesn't. I've also seen a ton of
examples of this style of carousel where
the top image represents like a
self-doubt or a negative self-belief or
a common complaint or question that
people have and then the bottom image or
video is immediately disproving that
with an example of maybe a celebrity,
someone who's famous in your niche, a
popular influencer who does what you do
who kind of disputes or contradicts what
the claim on the top half of the image
is saying. Carousel idea number three is
what I call the gamified carousel. And
essentially these carousels use their
first slide as a way to present the game
or to challenge their viewers and then
each subsequent slide is whatever that
game is. One example that I've seen of
these that has become quite popular is
spot the AI image. I think a lot of
photographers were using this early on
as a way to say look how much better my
photography is than the AI generated
image. But I've now seen people in other
industries, including myself, use this
style of carousel just to get people to
look at a bunch of different photos,
maybe photos that you've taken, photos
that show you doing something related to
your niche, kind of giving people a
little bit of a background or behind the
scenes into your life, and then one of
the images is very clearly, very
obviously AI generated. Now, I guess you
could use an AI generated image that
does look hyper realistic and arguably
that would probably get even more
engagement because people are truly
trying to figure out which of these
images is AI generated. But if you're
someone like a photographer or you're
someone who would be easily offended by
getting your real photographs, your real
art called out as if they are AI, then I
wouldn't recommend doing that. But
another example of the gamified trend
that I've seen people doing is if you
make it to slide four, you're my people.
Or if you make it to slide seven, you're
the type of person I would hang out
with. And then each slide can stand on
its own. It's not like it's necessarily
a story or you're giving tips slide
after slide. Basically, each slide is a
new photo that you've taken, a new video
you've created, maybe a new outfit that
you're wearing if you're a fashion
creator, maybe it's a new workout that
you're doing if you're a fitness
creator. And then if people make it to X
slide, basically what you're saying is
they have invested enough, they care
enough about your work that you would be
friends or that you would be uh hanging
out together or something like that.
Carousel idea number four is what I like
to call the crossframe carousel. And
this one is somewhat similar to the this
or that carousel where each individual
slide is going to be broken up into a
top half and a bottom half. But the
difference is with this one, you're
going to have the top image kind of
bleeding into the bottom image. This one
looks super cool and would be a great
way to show off maybe your vacation if
you're a travel creator or an exercise
in the gym if you're a fitness creator
or any other sort of photography or or
still images that you have that relate
to your brand. And I'll hop into Canva
right now to show you how easy this is
to do because it looks super complex. It
looks like you're going to need to be a
graphic designer, but honestly, it's
just like three or four clicks. All
right, so here we are in Canva. All
you're going to do is press create and
then select Instagram post
and then go down to the uploads button
and find two images that you want to
use. I'm going to use this random photo
shoot that I did with a pumpkin 7 years
ago because it's funny and it's cringe
and whatever, who cares, why not? Then
just move one image so that it's kind of
in the upper half of the screen. and
we'll drag this bottom bar to crop it so
it's cropped right at the midline right
there.
Then I'll select this random other image
and I'll enlarge it so that it covers
the bottom half.
And again I'll drag the top part to crop
it so that they meet at the bottom. What
I'm going to do is I'm going to have the
pumpkin from this top image be on this
bottom image as well. So, all I have to
do to achieve this effect is copy the
top image and then paste it. Then I'm
going to move it so that it's perfectly
in line with the original image. Then
I'm going to drag it down so that it
covers the bottom image right where I
want it to. Right there. Then all you
have to do is press background remover
and Canva will automatically remove the
background from the image. Now, as you
can see, it looks a little wonky because
my entire body is bleeding onto the
second image. So, all I'm going to do is
select that top image again, select
background remover again, and then I'm
going to erase the part of the image
where my body extends. And it's okay if
you erase a little bit higher.
We'll make this bigger. So, I can just
erase, erase, erase.
And then the only part that you have to
be careful not to erase is the part that
you want bleeding into the lower image.
So, I'm just going to do a quick rough
erase around the edge of the pumpkin.
And then when you hit the X and you're
all done, you'll be able to see that the
top image is now kind of passing an
object down into the bottom image.
Carousel idea number five is probably
the easiest out of all of these to
create, and it's what I like to call the
surprise proposal carousel. All you need
in order to do the surprise proposal
carousel is to take your phone or your
camera or whatever you're going to shoot
the image on and make sure that it's
horizontal. Instead of vertical, make
sure that it is, you know, wideways.
It's on its side, so to speak. And then
what you want to do is stand on the left
hand side of the frame and get on one
knee, preferably holding a ring box as
if you are proposing. Then you ideally
don't want anything on the right side of
the screen or if you do have anything on
the right side of the screen, it should
not be a person necessarily because the
whole point of the surprise proposal
carousel is that what we're going to do
is we're going to take this horizontal
image and we're going to split it down
the middle so that the image of you on a
knee with the ring box is the first
image and then people get all excited
and they swipe to see what or who you're
proposing to. But then when they swipe
there's either some text on the screen
on the second image or there is an
object that you are getting married to.
I've seen one example of this where
someone on the second image it just said
the game. So what they were saying is
they were getting married to the game. I
could imagine a fitness creator doing
this where the image on the right is
maybe a squat rack or whatever their
favorite uh piece of exercise equipment
is at the gym. If you're a recipe
creator or a food blogger, maybe the
thing on the second image is going to be
the refrigerator or your favorite piece
of kitchen equipment or your oven or
something like that. Basically, this is
just having a little bit of fun with
people's expectations. Posts about
people getting engaged are some of the
most engaging, pun not intended, posts
on all of Instagram. And so, playing
around with that, but saying that you're
getting engaged to something related to
your niche would just be a fun, funny
way to get people to engage. Carousel
idea number six is what I'm going to
call the surrealist carousel. And
basically, there's a few different
versions of what this surrealist
carousel might look like. One version
that I've seen is popular in the fashion
industry where fashion creators will
make their head like super super big,
like disproportionately 40 times bigger
than it's supposed to be. And because
it's surreal, because it breaks the norm
of what, you know, fashion selfies,
outfit pics look like, it grabs our
attention. Another version of surrealist
carousels often use mixed media. So they
might use a screenshot from their notes
app and then they might cut out a photo
of themselves and put it on top. Or they
might use a reminder that popped up on
their phone's notifications and they
might add that on top of the image but
then have their hand reaching up to that
popup as if the popup was actually
existing in the real world. One of my
favorite carousel content creators,
which that's a tongue twister, who is
doing a great job of making these
surrealist carousels right now, is
Victoria Bogodist. And I'm sure I'm
butchering her last name, but check her
out, especially if you're someone who's
in the fashion or the apparel industry,
because she's doing just an amazing job
at creating super unique, super engaging
carousels that aren't just boring fit
pickics one after the other. Carousel
idea number seven is what I like to call
the chat GBT stereotypes carousel.
Essentially, all you have to do to
create this carousel is go into chat GBT
and ask it to create an image of a
stereotypical blank in your industry.
I've seen an example of this where
someone did it with real estate agents.
So, they asked ChatGpt to come up with
what it thinks the stereotypical real
estate agent is who works for X company.
and then they insert a bunch of
different companies and had ChatGpt
create a bunch of different images. Now,
if you are going to do this trend, of
course, you're using stereotypes. So, I
want you to be careful and not lump any
group of people into a certain, you
know, defamatory or negative spotlight.
But, as long as it's all in good fun and
as long as nothing is is too negative or
mean or bullying or hurtful or anything
like that, this can be a really fun
trend to take advantage of. And my pro
tip is that when you are using ChachiBT
to create these images, encourage it to
be funny. Encourage it to be over the
top. Encourage it to include elements
that you might know are the
stereotypical included elements that
that person might have. And then all you
have to do is put all of those images
together into one slideshow carousel
collection and put some text on the
first image that says, "I asked chat GPT
what blank blank blank stereotypically
looks like or something like that." And
then eighth, last but not least, this
one seems super confusing to make, but
it's actually really fun and it's a
really interactive way to get your
audience to comment a specific keyword
or to just engage with your carousel.
Essentially, this style of carousel is
going to take advantage of the hack, if
you will, that we've talked about a few
times, which is where when someone holds
their finger down on those buttons at
the bottom and they scroll quickly, it
will flip through the images very fast,
kind of in a stop motion style. And so,
the eighth carousel idea is what I like
to call the hidden object or hidden word
carousel. And on the screen right now,
you can see some examples of what this
carousel looks like. And like I said, it
looks confusing to make. It looks like
it's going to be very challenging, but
it's actually relatively simple to
create right in Canva. For this one,
again, all you have to do is go to
Canva, press create, and then create a
new Instagram post. Then, what I like to
do is go to Google and find a random
photo of static or a gray blur.
Perfect. This one right here is totally
fine to use. I'll just save this image,
go back to Canva, and then pull that
into my uploads.
Then I'm just going to make sure that
this image covers up the entire screen.
And because I don't want those pixelated
squares to become too big, I'll just
stack a few of these pixelated images on
top of each other.
Okay. And then last but not least, all
you have to do is click elements and
then type in the shape or the element
that you want to add. So let's say I
wanted it to be a t-shirt. I could just
type in t-shirt. And then what you want
to do is you want to find the one that's
called frames. You want a frame of
whatever the thing is going to be. Just
select that frame, then go back to
uploads, go back to your pixelated blur,
and drag it into the frame. So now, as
you're looking at this image, you can't
really see what it is, but what we're
going to do is we're going to duplicate
this page. And then we're going to move
that object ever so slightly, maybe just
up a couple pixels and to the right by a
couple pixels. Then we're going to
duplicate this frame again. Select the
object and move it just ever so slightly
to the right, maybe down. duplicate it
again. And you can continue this
process. I think it's good to do it at
least for eight to nine different
slides, but whenever I use this
carousel, I usually do it at least 15
times. And again, I'm just moving it
ever so slightly so that when you
quickly flip through all of the slides,
it creates this effect where you
suddenly can see the shape or the word
that's in the background.
If you wanted to do this with a word,
all you would have to do is again go to
elements and then type in each letter of
the word individually. So if we were
typing in the word 'the', we would just
start with T, search for the word T. And
then we have all these different
versions of it. And then we can move it
down here. Okay, now we're going to do
H. And again, you can just repeat this
process for whatever word that you're
trying to spell out or whatever word
you're trying to have hidden. I will say
the smaller the object or the more
letters in the word, the tougher it's
going to be for your viewers to figure
out what that hidden word or object is.
You could use this carousel idea in
conjunction with DM automation so that
when people figure out what that hidden
object or that hidden word is, and then
they comment that word, they
automatically receive a direct message
through many chat that then can be used
to promote your email list, a course, a
product, whatever it is that you're
selling or anything like that. If you
want eight more carousel ideas, I did a
video just a few months ago with a bunch
of other interactive, fun, dynamic
carousels that aren't just the boring
three tips for blah blah blah style of
carousels. So, we'll link that up in the
show notes and it's probably on the
screen somewhere right now as well so
that you can click on and go back to
watch that episode. And I want to end
this episode by giving a shout out to
one of my favorite carousel creators
right now who I have no way to describe
what their carousels are like. And I
don't want to lump them into one
specific category, but they are Bube B Y
O O B. I'll link them up in the show
notes as well below. Every time I see
their carousels, I am so impressed. They
are so graphic designheavy. And I'm not
necessarily encouraging you to create
carousels like them, but I am
encouraging you to express yourself
using carousels. Get creative, try new
things, use mixed media, use photos and
videos and cutouts and clip art all in
the same carousel. And ultimately, just
have fun with it. Thank you so much for
watching today. Don't forget to hit that
subscribe button if you haven't already.
We're trying to hit 100K subscribers by
the end of the year. Thank you so much
to everyone who has already subscribed.
I'll see you next time. And as always,
happy listening.